In 1988, following a 400% increase in crime, the United States has turned Manhattan into a giant maximum-security prison. A 50-foot (15 m) wall surrounds the island, bridges have been mined, and all prisoners are sentenced to life terms.In 1997, NATO is engaged in an escalating war with the Soviet Union across much of Europe, which threatens to become a nuclear holocaust. While traveling to a peace summit, Air Force One is hijacked by a domestic terrorist posing as a flight attendant. The president is given a tracking bracelet and is handcuffed to his briefcase, containing a cassette tape describing the secret to using nuclear fusion for electricity generation, intended to be a peace offering. He ejects in an escape pod, landing in Manhattan just before the plane crashes.Police are dispatched to rescue the President. Romero, the right-hand man of the Duke of New York, the overall crime boss, warns that the Duke has the president, who will be killed if any further rescue attempts are made. Commissioner Bob Hauk offers a deal to Snake Plissken, a former Special Forces soldier convicted of attempting to rob the Federal Reserve. If Snake rescues the president and the cassette tape, Hauk will arrange a presidential pardon. To ensure his compliance, Hauk has Plissken injected with micro-explosives that will rupture his arteries within 22 hours. If Snake is successful, Hauk will neutralize the explosives.Snake uses a stealth glider to land atop the World Trade Center. He follows the tracking bracelet to a vaudeville theater, only to find it on the wrist of an insane old man. Convinced the president is dead, Snake radios Hauk but is told that he will be shot down if he comes out empty-handed.Snake meets "Cabbie," who remained in Manhattan after it became a prison and now drives an armored taxi. Cabbie takes Snake to Harold "Brain" Hellman, an adviser to the Duke and a former associate of Snake. Brain is a brilliant engineer and has established an oil well and a small refinery, fueling the city's remaining cars. Brain tells Snake that the Duke plans to lead a mass escape across the Queensboro Bridge by using the president as a human shield and following a landmine map that Brain has drawn up. Snake forces Brain and his girlfriend Maggie to lead him to the Duke's compound at Grand Central Terminal. Snake finds the president but is captured.While Snake is forced to fight in a deathmatch against "Slag," Brain and Maggie kill Romero and flee with the president. Snake kills Slag, and takes Brain, Maggie, and the president to the top of the World Trade Center to escape in the glider. After a band of crazies destroys it, the group returns to street level and encounters Cabbie, who offers to take them across the bridge. When Cabbie reveals that he bartered with Romero for the cassette tape, the president demands it, but Snake takes it.The Duke pursues them onto the bridge in his customized Cadillac, setting off mines as he tries to catch up. Brain guides Cabbie, but they hit a mine, and Cabbie is killed. As they continue on foot, Brain is killed by another mine. Maggie refuses to leave him, shooting at Duke's car until she is run down. Snake and the president reach the wall, and guards raise up the president via a rope. The Duke opens fire, killing the guards, but the president kills the Duke with a dead guard's assault rifle. Snake is lifted to safety, and the micro-explosives are neutralized after he hands over the cassette tape to Hauk.As the president prepares for a televised speech to the leaders at the summit meeting, he thanks Snake and tells him that he can have anything he wants. All Snake wants to know is how the president feels about the people who died saving him. The president offers only half-hearted regret and lip service for their sacrifice. As Snake walks away in disgust, Hauk offers him a job as his deputy, but Snake just keeps walking. The president's live speech commences, and he plays the cassette tape. To his embarrassment, it only plays Cabbie's song, "Bandstand Boogie." As Snake continues to walk away, he unravels the real cassette tape, containing the president's intended message and deliberately shredding it.