After winning a lifetime achievement award, esteemed successful screenwriter Steven Phillips (Brooks) has a rude awakening. Steven believes the award has no real meaning, but it does—it means his career is over. His studio has reneged that means they won't renew his contract and told him he's gone cold, saying he's "lost his edge." A junior exec named Josh Martin (Mark Feuerstein) tells Steven his new script is dull and to be off the lot by 5 p.m.Taken by surprise, the Oscar-nominated writer is desperate to revive his career. He seeks the advice of a very successful screenwriter buddy, Jack (Bridges), who arranges an introduction to Sarah (Stone), a modern-day muse who can inspire anyone.Sarah, however, has conditions and unnecessarily lavish needs, such as expensive hotel rooms and gifts from Tiffany & Co. Steven is forced to make good on those conditions, much to the chagrin of his wife Laura (MacDowell).Steven isn't sure if the muse could be the real thing or just somebody sucking him dry of his money and patience. She takes him to Long Beach, where they encounter writer-director Rob Reiner, someone Sarah clearly knows. Steven gets an idea for a movie set in an aquarium and thinks of Jim Carrey as the lead.As Sarah's demands increase, Steven's apprehensive wife begins to be won over. Through the muse's encouragement Laura decides to pursue her dream of baking and selling cookies, to much fanfare and success.To save money, Sarah is invited by the Phillipses to move into their house. Steven, however, is frustrated because Sarah spends more time helping others—notably Hollywood writers and directors like James Cameron and Martin Scorsese, who come to Steven's house to see her. Steven even surrenders his own bedroom to Sarah and sleeps in the guest house.When he pleads for a way to end his aquarium screenplay, Sarah does point Steven in the right direction and inspires him with a great idea. Steven's agent Hal is thrilled and urges him to finish the script as quickly as possible. Steven did finish the script, when he heard Sara's advice.The following morning, though, two visitors come to Steven's home, revealing that they are doctors from a mental clinic. They tell Steven that Sarah is an escaped psychiatric patient from their asylum who has multiple personality disorder. They find the whole "muse" idea hilarious. When they try to find Sarah to take her back, they discover that she has escaped. They decide not to go after her, since she can come and go anytime she wants.The junior exec, Josh, loves Steven's script, but he breaks the news that the idea is already in production at another studio—by Rob Reiner. A broken-hearted Steven goes to work in his wife's new cookie business.Things turn around when the agent calls to inform Steven that the Reiner project fell through and the studio wants to purchase his version, contingent upon a few changes being made. An excited Steven goes to the studio, where a secretary reveals that the studio fired Josh for stealing and they have a new boss, Christine, is now in charge. Steven is shocked to see Christine is Sarah in a long black wig. She takes Steven's arm and insists that they discuss the changes over a nice, expensive lunch, which she expects him to pay for. Steven frantically tries to comprehend what is happening.