Robert Downey Jr. as Tony Stark / Iron Man: The benefactor of the Avengers with electromechanical suits of armor of his own making. According to directors Joe and Anthony Russo, Downey was one of the few actors to read the entire screenplay for the film.Chris Evans as Steve Rogers / Captain America: The leader of the Avengers. A World War II veteran, he was enhanced to the peak of human physicality by an experimental serum and frozen in suspended animation before waking up in the modern world.Mark Ruffalo as Bruce Banner / Hulk: An Avenger and genius scientist who, because of exposure to gamma radiation, possesses enhanced strength and a monstrous appearance. In this film, Banner has managed to balance his two sides with gamma experimentation, enabling him to combine his intelligence with the Hulk's strength and physical stature, based on the "Professor Hulk" comic book identity. This concludes a character arc that was established in Thor: Ragnarok and continued in Avengers: Infinity War.Chris Hemsworth as Thor: An Avenger and the king of New Asgard, based on the Norse mythological deity of the same name. Thor now wields a mystical axe known as Stormbreaker, after the destruction of his hammer, Mjolnir, in Thor: Ragnarok. In the film, Thor has become an overweight, drunken ruler of Asgard's refugees in Tønsberg, Norway. Referencing this drastic character change, Hemsworth said, "I just had an opinion. I wanted to do something different this time. Each film I’ve wanted to, in particular, the last couple, and they were on board," and added, "We shot for many hours and days and discussed how far could we push (Thor) and what we could do different." Anthony Russo added, "Even though there’s a lot of fun to be had in the movie with his physical condition, it’s not a gag. It’s a manifestation of where he is on a character level, and we think it’s one of the most relatable aspects of him. I mean, it’s a very common sort of response to depression and pain."Scarlett Johansson as Natasha Romanoff / Black Widow: A highly trained spy, Avenger, and former agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.Jeremy Renner as Clint Barton / Hawkeye: A master archer, Avenger, and former agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. Barton has a new outfit in the film, visually similar to that of Ronin from the comics.Don Cheadle as James "Rhodey" Rhodes / War Machine: A former officer in the U.S. Air Force and Avenger who operates the War Machine armor.Paul Rudd as Scott Lang / Ant-Man: An Avenger and former petty criminal who acquired a suit that allows him to shrink or grow in scale and increase in strength. Lang is portrayed by twins Bazlo and Loen LeClair as a baby, by Jackson Dunn at age 12, and by Lee Moore at age 93. This was Moore's final film before his death in August 2018.Brie Larson as Carol Danvers / Captain Marvel: An ex-U.S. Air Force pilot and new Avenger whose DNA was altered during an accident, imbuing her with superhuman strength, energy projection, and flight. Co-screenwriter Christopher Markus stated that Danvers' powers are on a scale that has not previously existed in the MCU and likened her personality to Rogers', "which is sort of a person who's right and knows they're right and doesn't really want to hear it when you tell them they're wrong". Larson filmed her scenes for Endgame before beginning work on her solo film Captain Marvel, which was released first. Captain Marvel directors Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck were present for the filming of her scenes in Endgame and gave Danvers' characterization in the film their blessing.Karen Gillan as Nebula: A former member of the Guardians of the Galaxy, Avenger, and adopted daughter of Thanos who was raised with Gamora as siblings.Danai Gurira as Okoye: A Wakandan traditionalist from the Border Tribe who is the head of the Dora Milaje, Wakanda's all-female special forces and T'Challa's bodyguards.Benedict Wong as Wong: A Master of the Mystic Arts and associate of Stephen Strange.Jon Favreau as Harold "Happy" Hogan: The former head of security for Stark Industries and Tony Stark's driver and bodyguard.Bradley Cooper as Rocket: A former member of the Guardians of the Galaxy and now Avenger who is a genetically-engineered raccoon-based bounty hunter and mercenary, and is a master of weapons and battle tactics. Sean Gunn was again the stand-in for Rocket during filming, with his acting and expressions serving as motion reference for the character.Gwyneth Paltrow as Virginia "Pepper" Potts: Stark's wife and the CEO of Stark Industries, who wears a powered exosuit of armor in the film, her own variation of a suit of Iron Man's armor, similar to that of Rescue from the comics. Paltrow said this would be her final major appearance in the MCU.Josh Brolin as Thanos: An intergalactic warlord from Titan who collected the six Infinity Stones to impose his will on all life in the universe. Joe Russo said that after Thanos was successful in Avengers: Infinity War, he is now "done. He did it. He's retired." In addition to providing the voice for the character, Brolin performed motion capture on set.Several actors whose characters died during the events of or were decimated at the climax of Infinity War reprise their roles in Endgame, including Benedict Cumberbatch as Dr. Stephen Strange, Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa / Black Panther, Tom Holland as Peter Parker / Spider-Man, Zoe Saldana as Gamora, Evangeline Lilly as Hope van Dyne / Wasp, Elizabeth Olsen as Wanda Maximoff / Scarlet Witch, Anthony Mackie as Sam Wilson / Falcon, Sebastian Stan as Bucky Barnes / Winter Soldier, Tom Hiddleston as Loki, Pom Klementieff as Mantis, Dave Bautista as Drax the Destroyer, Letitia Wright as Shuri, Michael Douglas as Hank Pym, Michelle Pfeiffer as Janet van Dyne, Cobie Smulders as Maria Hill, Linda Cardellini as Laura Barton, Tom Vaughan-Lawlor as Ebony Maw, Vin Diesel as Groot, Chris Pratt as Peter Quill / Star-Lord, Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury, Michael James Shaw as Corvus Glaive, and Terry Notary as Cull Obsidian. Monique Ganderton provides the motion capture performance for Proxima Midnight, having previously played the role with Carrie Coon.Also reprising their roles from previous MCU films, including characters who had died by the events of Infinity War, are Tessa Thompson as Valkyrie, Rene Russo as Frigga, John Slattery as Howard Stark, Tilda Swinton as the Ancient One, Hayley Atwell as Peggy Carter, Marisa Tomei as May Parker, Taika Waititi as Korg, Angela Bassett as Ramonda, William Hurt as Thaddeus Ross, Winston Duke as M'Baku, Maximiliano Hernández as Jasper Sitwell, Frank Grillo as Brock Rumlow, Jacob Batalon as Ned, Robert Redford as Alexander Pierce, Ross Marquand as Red Skull, Kerry Condon as the voice of Stark's suit A.I. F.R.I.D.A.Y, Callan Mulvey as Jack Rollins, and Ty Simpkins as Harley Keener. Natalie Portman appears as Jane Foster through unused footage from Thor: The Dark World and new voice over that Portman recorded for when Foster appears talking in the distance. James D'Arcy reprises his role as Edwin Jarvis from the MCU television series Agent Carter, marking the first time a character introduced in an MCU television series appears in an MCU film.Additionally, Hiroyuki Sanada portrays Akihiko, a Yakuza boss operating in Tokyo who opposes Barton. Alexandra Rabe portrays Morgan Stark, Tony and Pepper's daughter. Katherine Langford was cast to portray an older Morgan, but her scene was deleted from the film. Emma Fuhrmann portrays present-day Cassie Lang, Scott's daughter. Avengers co-creator Stan Lee has a posthumous cameo in the film, appearing digitally de-aged as a car driver in 1970; this is his final cameo appearance in film. Ken Jeong and Yvette Nicole Brown cameo as a storage facility guard and a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, respectively. Co-director Joe Russo (credited as Gozie Agbo) has a cameo appearance as a man grieving the sudden loss of a loved one, which is the first time an openly homosexual character has been portrayed in an MCU film. Joe's daughters Ava and Lia respectively portray Barton's daughter Lila and a fan of Hulk. Thanos creator Jim Starlin also appears as a grieving man.