Tom Holland as Peter Parker / Spider-Man: A teenager and Avenger who received spider-like abilities after being bitten by a genetically-modified spider. Director Jon Watts said that in contrast to Spider-Man: Homecoming, in which Parker longs for the responsibilities of an adult, in Far From Home, he wants to hang onto his youth, saying, "This film is about the world telling him, 'It's time for you to step up and grow up, kid,' and he's saying, 'But I still want to be a kid and go on vacation.'"Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury: The former director of S.H.I.E.L.D. Watts describes Fury's relationship with Parker as "the mean new stepdad", contrasting his role with Tony Stark's "supportive cool uncle" in Homecoming, saying, "Fury doesn't see himself in Peter Parker. Fury sees Peter Parker as an asset that he needs who is too preoccupied with a bunch of high school problems." Watts originally pitched Homecoming using Fury as a mentor to Parker. Far From Home puts Fury in a situation in which he does not have the same level of control he is used to having.Zendaya as Michelle "MJ" Jones: One of Parker's classmates and friends, who he has romantic interest in. She is also one of few people that knows that Parker is Spider-Man.Cobie Smulders as Maria Hill: A former high-ranking S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who works closely with Nick Fury.Jon Favreau as Harold "Happy" Hogan: The head of security for Stark Industries and former driver and bodyguard of Tony Stark who looks after Parker. It is implied that he is attracted to Peter's aunt. Watts noted Happy would be used to explore the idea of "trying to find your place in the world if the center of your world is gone" given his close friendship to Stark.J. B. Smoove as Mr. Dell: One of Parker's teachers who chaperones his school trip to Europe. Smoove was considered for the role after appearing in an Audi commercial for Homecoming with Holland.Jacob Batalon as Ned: Parker's best friend.Martin Starr as Mr. Harrington: Parker's academic decathlon teacher who chaperones his school trip to Europe.Marisa Tomei as May Parker: Parker's aunt who is fully aware of his secret identity and wants him to be Spider-Man more so he can help with charitable causes.Jake Gyllenhaal as Quentin Beck / Mysterio: An expert on the Elementals who claims to be from Earth-833, a parallel dimension in the Multiverse, and is recruited by Nick Fury to help Spider-Man stop them. Regarding Beck's relationship with Parker, Watts says that "If Tony Stark was sort of the mentor in the previous films, we thought it would be interesting to play Mysterio as almost like the cool uncle." Having Beck team up with Fury and Parker to take on a global threat was "really exciting" to Watts, who wanted to bring the character into the MCU "in a way that people weren’t expecting."Additionally, several actors reprise their roles from Homecoming, including Tony Revolori as Parker's rival Eugene "Flash" Thompson, Angourie Rice as Parker's classmate and Ned's girlfriend Betty Brant, and Hemky Madera as Mr. Delmar, the owner of a local bodega. Numan Acar portrays Fury's associate Dimitri. Remy Hii was cast as Brad Davis, a popular student, who Parker sees as competition for MJ's affection. Oli Hill and Zach Barack have been cast in undisclosed roles. The Elementals appear in the film through use of CGI special effects, inspired by lesser-known villains, including Hydro-Man and Molten Man.